Introductions: Learn student's names


If in Japan
10% of Japanese can speak English well.
90% of Japanese cannot speak English well. 
138 out of 141 countries
lowest ranked in Asia

Why learn English?
Travel
Job
Get more knowledge: documentation - English First. 
Domestic demand for English speakers is increasing. Rakuten

Who likes English? Who doesn't like English?

It is not your fault

We will make learning English fun. I will make learning Python in English fun. 
Communicative activities. 
Icebreakers



You could use Scratch or Python
Use Python for those in the developer stream
Use Scratch for those in the non developer stream


Day 2

Learning points

Print
demonstrate: print("Hello world!") 

and 

Comments

what's up
who likes Java? Who like's python?
Go over the voabulary pth

The single most important skill for a computer scientist is problem solving. 
Problem solving means the ability to formulate problems, think creatively about solutions, 
and express a solution clearly and accurately.

The programming language you will be learning is Python. 
Python is an example of a high-level language; other high-level languages you might have heard of are 
C++, PHP, Pascal, C#, and Java.

The engine that translates and runs Python is called the Python Interpreter. 

here are two ways to use it: immediate mode and script mode. 

In immediate mode, 
you type Python expressions into the Python Interpreter window, 
and the interpreter immediately shows the result:

Let's open our python interpreter.


The >>> is called the Python prompt.

Alternatively, you can write a program in a file and use the interpreter to execute the contents of the file. 
Such a file is called a script. Scripts have the advantage that they can be saved to disk, printed, and so on.
Do you have Visual Code Studio


open up their intepreter

introduce print
Review: Python Prompt
Print hello world  


print()
We use the print function to display. It displays a value on the screen. In this case, the result shown is

Words:
NameError: - a type of run-time error
* Multiplication
** exponentiation operator
#

Review
print("What's up")
print("I like banana.")

Introduce comment and # - Dictation. 
1. print("I like banana.") #So do I 
2. print("Hello, World!") # Isn't this easy!

Creating a python script. 
Give the text to read about comments for them to read. 
A comment in a computer program is text that is intended only for the human reader — it is completely ignored by the interpreter.
Also give the text about debugging and experiemental debugging to read. 
Day 3

review: Print
Learning points
statement
integer
floating points
modulo

Exercises
Start your command prompt. Get a paper and pen ready
Type print("hello"). Python executes this, which has the effect of printing the letters h-e-l-l-o. Notice that the quotation marks that you used to enclose the string are not part of the output.
Type "hello" and Tell me the result.  Make notes of when you see the quotation marks and when you don’t.
Type cheese without the quotation marks. Tell me the error 
Type the statement 6 + 4 * 9 at the Python prompt and hit enter. Is this a floating point number or integer?



Day 4
Learning points
Review
concatenate
Installing Visual Studio Code

Type a statement that prints all integer numbers between 1 and 10
Type a statement that prints all the odd numbers between 1 and 10 
Type a statement that prints the floating point number 1.2
Find 5 modulo 3. Can you tell me the result?
Find 4 modulo 2. What shows up on the screen?
Find 10 modulo 3. Please tell me the result
Find the addition of 2 and 3. Can you tell me what you see?

Test questions
1. The engine that translates and runs Python is called what?
2. What is this: >>>
3. At the python prompt print the name of your school
4. Print your name and add your last name as a comment. 
5. What are three types of errors?
6. What type of error do you get if you type school in your python interpreter without the quotation?
7. What is the modulo sign?
8. How do you find 8 modulo 5 in your python interpreter?
9. What is the result of 8 modulo 5?
10. What is the result of 9 modulo 3?
11. What is the error you get if you type 5    20 in your python interpreter?
12. How do you find the addition of 2 and 3 in your python interpreter?
13. Write am integer
14. Is 9 an odd or even number?
15. Is 4 an odd or even number?
16. Write a floating point number
17. Type a statement that prints Four point six as a floating point number 
18. Type a statement that prints Four point six as a string
19. Whhat types are these:
    a. "50.2"
    b. 50.2
20. What types are these:  
    a. 12
    b. "12"

7b. What is the result of 8 modulo 5?
8. How do you find the addition of 2 and 3 in your python interpreter?
9. Write an integer number: 
10. Write a floating point number: 


Day 5
Review 
integer
string
value
classified 
class 
datatypes 
manipulate
angle 

Type "Hello" + "Salami Sausage"
Concatentate the following: "What" "is" "your" "problem?"

Terms 
value 
A value is one of the fundamental things — like a letter or a number — that a program manipulates

These values are classified into different classes, or datatypes: 
4 is an integer, and "Hello, World!" is a string

If you are not sure what class a value falls into, 
Python has a function called type which can tell you.

angle bracket. 

Type the following in your python intepreter and tell me what you see: type("Hello, World!")

Type the following in your python intepreter and tell me what you see: type(17)

Type the following in your python intepreter and tell me what you see: type(3.2)

Type the following in your python intepreter and tell me what you see: type("17")

Type the following in your python intepreter and tell me what you see: type("3.2")

On the board
Strings in Python can be enclosed in either single quotes (') or double quotes ("), 
or three of each (''' or """)

Convert their code to python scripts


Day 6

Warm up
Speaking on the phone - following up on the bug
vocabulary - App, Component, Computer, Data, Database
Python exercises 


Day 7
Test Questions(Doesn't include Steve's Questions)

Name two types of errors
What is the result when you type print("Hello World")
How do you concatenate the following words: "What" "is" "your" "problem" "?"
Is this a string or an integer "17"
Is this a string or an integer 17
What datatype is this: 17.2
What is the result of 5 modulo 3?

Day 8: Values and data types: Goal: Reviewing the test and using type() in python
Review the test 
Board data types/classes: 
integer 
string 

float 
single quotes ('), double quotes (") 
triple quoted strings. ''' 
triple double quotation """
= assignment token


Exercises
If you are not sure what class a value falls into, Python has a function called type which can tell you.

They will do these running dictation style
print("Bruce's beard")
print('The knights who say "Ni!"'.)
print('''"Oh no", she exclaimed, "Ben's bike is broken!"''')

Demonstrate the task with steve.

Day 9 Goal: Students will understand how to use the type function 
and assignment token 


Write and raise the flag. 
Review single quote, double quotes, triple single quote, triple double quotation 

Strings 

Strings in Python can be enclosed in either single quotes (') or double quotes ("), or three of each (''' or """)

Day 10: Students will understand the concepts of variable, assignment token, assignment statement, value
Variables, Assignment token 


Review: the different types of strings in Python.  
    What data type is this?
    They read statements to their partners. Their partners write the sentences and then board the datatype
    'A day without sunshine is like, night.'
    "Money talks... but all mine ever says is goodbye!"
    '''If at first you don't succeed, skydiving definitely isn't for you. '''
    """ If you want to be criticized, marry. """  

(At the back of the class. They then board. )


message = "What is your problem?" (Label this with message, assignment token, assignment statement, value)

'message' is the variable
A 'variable' is a name that refers to a value. 

= "What is your problem?" is the assignment statement

"What is your problem?" is the value. 

The assignment statement gives a value to a variable

This statement assigns the string value "What's is your problem?" to a variable named message.




Day 11

Review: assignment token

Goal: Students will be able to give instructions to assign values to variables. 

Dictate to their teammates the following:

Create a variable called message. Assign "What is your problem?" to message
They solve this in groups. 

Then they type in their python interpreter 


Board: message = "What's your problem?". They label and board statements labeling the different parts of the 
statement. e.g. The variable name is message. The assignment statement is ..., The value given to the variable is... 


(Exercise: Labeling the assigment statement, the assignment token, and the value, the difference between)

fruit = "My favorite fruit is tomato"

Create a variable called fruit. Assign "My favorite fruit is tomato" to fruit 



Send one person from a team out of the class. 

Board: n = 17 for the remaining teammates to see. Erase it. The teammates who saw the boarded statement have to give 
give the correct instructions to their classmate. 



What is the variable name? The variable name is ....
What is the assignment statement? The assignment statement is ...
What is the value given to the variable? The value given to the variable is... 

(Dictation to each other)
START HERE WITH CLASS 1. A teammate steps out, and comes back in. They read the instructions to their teammate

pi = 3.14159
What is the variable name? 
What is the assignment statement?
What is the value given to the variable?


Dictation

1. In your python interpreter, type the following: message = "What is your problem?"
2. display the value saved in message


n = 17
pi = 3.14159


Create a variable called name. Assign your name to variable. 


Get notes ready for steve

We use variables in a program to “remember” things, perhaps the current score at the football game. 
But variables are variable. This means they can change over time, just like the scoreboard at a football game. 
You can assign a value to a variable, and later assign a different value to the same variable. 

>>> message = "What's up, Doc?"
>>> message 
'What's up, Doc?' 
>>> n
17
>>> pi
3.14159

Show them a picture of 
In your python intepreter, type day = "Thursday"

DAY 12

Correct mistake of assignment statement 

Review: 

Students go outside: come back in and their partners give them the instructions
1a. Create a variable called vacation = "Vacation is over. Cry, Cry, Cry!" 

1b. The partners that come in will read the instructions to their partners 
    What is the name of the variable? 

    What is the assignment token?

    What is the assignment statment? 

    What is the value that is assigned?

Switch

2a. Create a variable called honey = """I miss my honey Cry, Cry, Cry!"""

2b. The partners that come in will read the instructions to their partners 
    What is the name of the variable? 

    What is the assignment token?

    What is the assignment statment? 

    What is the value that is assigned?

3. Raise the flag 
    single quote 
    double quote 
    triple single quote  
    triple double quotes

4. There are four ways to create strings in python. Change this statement to a string
using the four ways: I eat Salami

5. Given the following: 100, what is the python command to find the datatype of 100?

6. What would be the result of type(“100.85”) in the python interpreter? 

7. What would be the result of type(182.85) in the python interpreter?	

Project: Create a program identify the various parts using Comments

2nd TERM

Divide classroom into teams. Divide the board into the same number of sections as the number of teams you have
Put the vocabulary for the first word:  Ask students to get the rest.
They board the rest of the vocabulary using relay style.
It is a race.  

Extension:
Hot seat with the vocabulary words
Introduce the words in English

Q: Hi, Steve
A: 

Q: How was your vacation?
A: 

Q: What did you do?
A: I slept all day

Day 2:
Day 1: Semester Icebreaker and Review

Their partners read and then the other partner boards 
example: Write an integer number.

 

Write a floating point number 
Write the modulo sign?
Using the print command, write a statement that prints all numbers between 1 and 10

Type a statement that prints the floating point number 1.2
Type a statement that finds 5 modulo 3
What is the concatenation sign?

Day 3: Variable names and keywords

Divide students into a teams. Have students create team names and put their team names on the board. Then students numbers 
on the board for answer spots. They will give instructions to their partners. For each each problem they answer correctly, 
they get and put a point on the board at the number they got correct. 

Say to their partner 
'
''
"

" "
''' '''
""" """

What is name of this: '
What is the name of this: ' '
What is the name of this: " "
What is the name of this: ''' '''

On their computers 


Concatentate the following: "I" "love" "you"
Using the type function, find out what datatype is this value: 3
What datatype is this value: "Hello Steve!"

Use the 

type function to find out what datatype this is: "Hello, World!"

example

Create a variable called message. Assign 'A day without sunshine is like, night.' to message
What is the assignment statement? What is the assignment token? What is the value is the value that is assigned?

Exercises to lead to reading:


In your python interpreter, create a variable called day. Assign "Thursday" to day then print day to the screen

Change the value of the variable day to "Friday" then print the new value to the screen 

Change the value of day to 21 then print the new value to the screen. 

Improving: Reading Exercises, Writing, Listening, Speaking Exercises. 

Introduce the reading. 

We use variables in a program to “remember” things, perhaps the current score at the football game. But variables are variable. 
This means they can change over time, just like the scoreboard at a football game. You can assign a value to a variable, 
and later assign a different value to the same variable. (This is different from maths. In maths, if you give ‘x‘ the value 3, 
it cannot change to link to a different value half-way through your calculations!)

You’ll notice we changed the value of day three times, and on the third assignment we even made it refer to a value that was of a different type.
A great deal of programming is about having the computer remember things, e.g. 
The number of missed calls on your phone, and then arranging to update or change the variable when you miss another call.

Execerpt: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python 3 Documentation, Release 3rd Edition

Day 3: Variable names and keywords

Day 4
Vocabulary
arbitrarily
digits
underscore
uppercase
convention
multiple
situations
illegal
character
syntax
structure
meaningful
document (v) e.g. to document something 

Warmup 

evaluate = show

Create a variable called message. In message save the value: "What's up,  Doc?" Ask the interpreter to evaluate
the variable. What is the result?

Create a variable called n. In n save the value: 17. Ask the interpreter to evaluate
the variable. What is the result?

Create a variable called pi. In pi save the value: 3.14159. Ask the interpreter to evaluate
the variable. What is the result?

In your python interpreter, create a variable called day. Assign "Thursday" to day then print day to the screen

Change the value of the variable day to "Friday" then print the new value to the screen 

Change the value of day to 21 then print the new value to the screen. 

Improving: Reading Exercises, Writing, Listening, Speaking Exercises. 

Introduce the reading. 

We use variables in a program to “remember” things, perhaps the current score at the football game. But variables are variable. 
This means they can change over time, just like the scoreboard at a football game. You can assign a value to a variable, 
and later assign a different value to the same variable. (This is different from maths. In maths, if you give ‘x‘ the value 3, 
it cannot change to link to a different value half-way through your calculations!)

You’ll notice we changed the value of day three times, and on the third assignment we even made it refer to a value that was of a different type.
A great deal of programming is about having the computer remember things, e.g. 
The number of missed calls on your phone, and then arranging to update or change the variable when you miss another call.

Execerpt: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python 3 Documentation, Release 3rd Edition

Show the reading. Go through it with class. Ask students to underline words they don't understand. 
Rules for making variable names

Variable names and keywords
introduce: 
underscore
letter
digit
uppercase
lowercase 

Create a variable called what_time_did_you_sleep_last_night. Save "3AM". Show the result. 

Create a variable called Teacher, assign "Handsome Steve" to teacher. 

Create a variable called teacher. Save
"Ugly Salami" to teacher. Ask the interpreter to evaluate the variables. What are the results?

Start here with class 1 Nov 13th 
Create a variable called my_name. Save your name to my_name. 

Create a variable called price_of_tea_in_china. Save "20 Yen" to price_of_tea_in_china.

Type the following. Tell me what you see.  
76trombones = "big parade"
class = "Computer Science 101"


Switch
more$ = 1000000
finally = "I can sleep"



meaningful.
Create a variable called car, save "banana" to car.
Create a variable called fruit, save "banana" to fruit. 
Which is more more meaningful?

How to practice reading documentation.

Test Questions

1. Create a variable called 'teacher', assign your "Salami" to 'teacher'. Then assign the 
value 'Mogi' to teacher. 

2. What is the value of teacher?


For questions 2 and 3. 

>>> month = "October"
>>> month = "November"
>>> month = "December"

2. What is the value of month?

3. How many times have we change the value assigned to month?

For questions 4 and 5

>>> day = "Thursday"
>>> Day = "Friday"

4. What is the value of Day?


5. What is the value of day?


6. Which of these is illegal for a variable name?

 a. 1year = "2019"
 b. year1 = "2019"

7. Is this a legal variable name? 

  iLove¥ = true

8. Which of these is more meaningful as a variable name?
   a. school = "Tokyo Electronic College" 
   b. love = "Tokyo Electronic College"?

9. Create a variable called country. Assign the value of the name of your country to country. 
The value of country should be in lowercase.

10. Create a variable called my_name. Assign the value of your name to name. Your name 
should be in uppercase. 


Answers

1. 
teacher = 'Salami' or teacher = "Salami"
teacher = 'Mogi' or "Mogi"

2. 'Decemeber' (It doesn't have to have the quotes)

3. 3 times 

4. 'Friday'

5. 'Thursday'

6. a.

7. No

8. a. 

9.
country = "japan"

10.
my_name = "THEIR NAMES" (Their name should be in uppercase)


Test Review

1. Create a variable called city, thhen assign "Tokyo" to city. Then assign "Osaka" to city. What is the value of city?

2 Create a variable called car, thhen assign "Ferrari to car. Then assign "Toyota to car. What is the value of car?

3. Create a variable called computer then assign "Sony to computer. Then assign "Panasonic" to computer. What is the value value of computer?

4.
    >>> name = "Hosun"
    >>> name = "Steve"
    >>> name = "Salami"
    >>> name = "Tope"

    a. What is value of name?
    b. How many times have we changed the value assigned to name?

5. 
    >>> year = "2017"
    >>> year = "2018"
    >>> year = "2019"

    a. Whhat is thhe value of year?
    b. How many times have we change the value assigned to year?

6. >>> Home = "Chiba"
   >>> home = "Saitama"

   a. What is the value of Home?
   b. What is the value of home?

7. 
    >>> My_favorite_place = "Ikebukuro"
    >>> My_favorite_place = "Ueno"
    >>> my_favorite_place = "Shibuya"

    What is the value of my_favorite_place?


8. Which of these is illegal for a variable name?
    12month = "December"
    month12 = "December"


9. Which of these is illegal for a variable name?
    a. 2age = 17
    b. age2 = 17


10. Which of these is a legal variable nane?
    a. iLoveYen = True
    b. iLove¥ = True 

11 Which of these is more meaningful as a variable namme?

    a. shoe = "Nike"
    b. place = "Nike"

12. Which of these is a legal variable name?
    a. iLove$ = True
    b. iLoveDollars = True



13. Which of these is more meaningful for a variable name?
    a. address = "2 Higashi Ikebukuro"
    b. food = "2 Higashi Ikebukuro"

14. Create variable called school. Assign the name of your school to school. The value of school should be in lowercase 

15. Create a variable called my_hero. Assign the name of your hero to my_hero. The value of my_hero should be in uppercase. 

 

2.4 Statements

Steve will go through the following with the Students. 
Dictation and board 
A statement is an instruction that the Python interpreter can execute. 
We have only seen the assignment statement so far. 
Some other kinds of statements that we’ll see shortly are while statements, for statements, if statements, and import statements. 
(There are other kinds too!)
When you type a statement on the command line, Python executes it. Statements don’t produce any result.


2.5 Evaluating expressions
Type the following in your interpreter: 
>>> 1 + 1
2
>>> len("hello")
5 
In this example len is a built-in Python function that returns the number of characters in a string.

An expression is a combination of values, variables, operators, and calls to functions. 
If you type an expression at the Python prompt, the interpreter evaluates it and displays the result.

Type the following in your interpreter:
>>> 17
#17
>>> y = 3.14
>>> x = len("hello") 
>>> x
 5
>>> y 
3.14




R
* = multiplication token
** = exponentiation token

Create a variable called minutes. Assign the value 645 to minutes. 
Divide minutes by 60 and assign the result to a new variable called hours. 
Print hours to the screen. 


Type converter functions. 
In Python, we can convert from one data type to another. For example, we can convert
from a float to an int. 

The int function can take a floating point number or a string, and turn it into an int.
In your python interpreter type the following: 
int(3.14)
int(3.9999)
int(3.0)
int(-3.999)
int("2345") 
int("23 bottles")

We are converting from what type to what type in this expression?
float(17)

float("123.45")

str(17)

str(123.45)

Order of operations
What is the answer of this: (1+1)**(5-2) #8
and this 
2 * (3-1) #4

Parentheses have the highest precedence

2**1+1 
3*1**3 
Exponentiation has the next highest precedence

Multiplication and both Division operators have the same precedence, which is higher than Addition and
Subtraction
 2*3-1
 5-2*2 
 
 Operators with the same precedence are evaluated from left-to-right
 6-3+2, 
 
 Operations on strings
 In general, you cannot perform mathematical operations on strings, even if the strings look like numbers.
 Create a variable called message
 message - 1 

 


len 
